# Reflection on capstone progress so far
I began my capstone project research with the goal of choosing a subject to feature in my idea of a "better" museum. My search for a subject proved quite difficult, and I jumped from concept to concept, dissatisfied with my choices of subject and my ideas for how to make a more interactive, "better" museum. I explored traditional boatbuilding practices from Kerala (and how they were being used in the Gulf), vintage computer art, Islamic geometric patterns, Buddhist sand mandalas, a concept for an interactive textile piece, and a whole host of ideas about the forms a "better" museum that invited engagement could take.

While my capstone progress was greatly hindered by my constant second-guessing, the amount of research I did, especially through the lens of critical theory, really helped me to ground my capstone in broad themes that I wanted to address.  My motivation for wanting to propose an alternative to existing museum standards draws from post-colonialism, anti-imperialism, and deconstructing the hierarchy created by the practice of "gazing". After drawing the conclusion that museums are essentially sites that facilitate and influence the gaze, I considered how their exhibits play a significant role in public perception of histories and cultures. The reception of an Other, whether past or present, is not passive or solely drawn from scholarly work, but is an active contributor to the creation of knowledge about this "Other". The development of ideas about cultures exhibited in museums are not the products of academic study alone, but of the way they are represented outside academic discourse too (such as in public museums).

I knew what I wanted to change about museums; in brief, I wanted to draw attention to how counterproductive most museums' forms are to the communication of their content (which is rarely perfect either). I wanted to make choices that would result in as faithful a representation as possible, and by introducing an interactive element, reduce and blur the separation between the observer and the observed. What I struggled with now was deciding what that interactive element looked like, and again, who the subject of the exhibition should be. I considered inventing a culure, using existing fictional cultures, and even ambitiously attempting to encapsulate my experience as an immigrant in the Gulf in the form of an educational museum exhibit.

After several discussions with my mentor about what my subject should be, I realized I was being held back by a fear of my exhibit not doing justice to the subject culture, or worse, being off-base or even offensive to lived experiences. I was being too ambitious with the project (as my capstone professor says, I have big ideas that I need to narrow down), and I decided to scale back to just thinking about the form. What is my ideal form of a modern museum? My mind immediately went to the movie "Night at the Museum" (where the exhibits in a museum come to life every night, in case you haven't seen it). I wanted historical museum subjects to come to life so we could stop thinking of them as objects or distant concepts, but real living beings with rich culture and heritage that we can barely begin to scratch the surface of.  Dinosaurs, space, plants and animals are all very engaging museum subjects, because museums have leveraged their novelty through interactive experiences	: animatronics, virtual safaris, simulation games, and working models, for example. In order to find similar novelty in more nuanced subjects (like human cultures), museums often condense important information into a flashier, more digestible version. In the choices of what information gets communicated, public perception of the depicted subject is formed.

Children's museums are generally designed to invite close engagement and maintain attention, and I strongly believe "adult" museums have a lot to learn from this approach. A block of text next to a tool in a glass case deprives us of understanding the context of its use, and how it was used (or is used), but an exhibit where you can use a replica of the same tool completely changes your relationship with it. I decided I wanted to make a "children's museum" for adults, with a "Night at the Museum" premise. 

Then, over a few sessions with my mentor, I decided to drive my search for a subject with a question: which culture would most benefit from being able to come to life? In my research into reception studies, I came across a paper by Stephanie Moser, which used the subject of ancient Egypt to demonstrate how the study of non-scholarly interpretations of the ancient past is useful in developing our scholarly understanding of how that ancient past is received and represented. She chose ancient Egypt because it has been the subject of widespread public interest on many occasions over the centuries. The idea of using an ancient culture intrigued me, because thinking of the ancient culture as an object is even easier than a living culture. The conceptualization of ancient Egypt is far more prone to corruption and dramatization given the amount of time its been evolving, and freezing it in time as an ancient (or dead) culture makes it hard to actually engage with it to learn more about it. Some preliminary research into ancient Egypt made me realize what a great subject it (or any other ancient culture) would be. The museum-goer will know what hieroglyphs are, but not how they work or what ancient Egyptian sounded like. I found countless misconceptions about topics like the construction of the pyramids, ancient Egyptian religions, clothing, and cultural practices, all of which would benefit immensely from an interactive space. I have decided to focus on ancient Egypt as a subject for now, and prototype technologies for museum pieces "coming to life", like moving paintings and statues, and creating usable versions of museum artifacts.

My capstone progress has been slow and came to almost a complete halt over the past few weeks. As a result, I'm not where I'd like to be, but I'm glad my capstone crisis seems to have taken a turn for the better. I finally have a preliminary subject that I'm comfortable with, along with ongoing prototypes for exhibit formats. I'm really grateful to Mang for his feedback and advice during our weekly meetings, and for the concern and support from the department during this stressful time. I'm using this project to try and create solutions for a field I am passionate about; the idea that this project could be used to prove how useful I'd be in this field was a huge point of stress as well. Moving forward, I hope to focus heavily on making, especially now that I can build on the same projects every week.
